# `0x76` Visual Indicators

This command is used to trigger the visual indicators for various Anti-Theft (DWA) and Cental Locking events.

The GM coding determines which indicators are triggered.

### Related Commands

- ...

### Example Frames

    00 04 BF 76 00 CD
    00 04 BF 76 02 CF
    00 04 BF 76 82 4F

## Parameters

Fixed length. One byte bitfield.

    VISUAL_OFF          = 0b0000_0000
    
    VISUAL_HAZARDS      = 0b0000_0001   # Hazard warning flashers
    VISUAL_TURN_SIGNALS = 0b0000_0010   # Turn signals flashing
    VISUAL_LOW_BEAMS    = 0b0000_0100   # Low beams flashing
    VISUAL_HIGH_BEAMS   = 0b0000_1000   # High beams flashing
    
    VISUAL_UNKNOWN      = 0b1000_0000

### Visual Off `0b0000_0000`

Visual indicators will remain active until they are deactivated.

### Visual Hazards `0b0000_0001`

This is akin to manually activating the hazard warning flashers via the central console.

### Visual Turn Signals `0b0000_0010`

Unlike the hazard warning flashers, there are no interior indicators, i.e. the cluster turn signal indicators are not activated.

### Visual Low Beams `0b0000_0100`

Low beams flashing at the same interval as the turn signals.

### Visual High Beams `0b0000_1000`

High beams flashing at the same interval as the turn signals.

### Visual Unknown? `0b1000_0000`

No apparent effect. I thought this may have been the acoustic indicator, but I believe that's via alarm siren which is controlled by GM, so I don't know!

## Use Cases

### Anti-Theft (DWA)

Any combination of the hazard warning lights, low beams, and high beams can be coded as visual indicators.

    # General Module Coding: Anti-Theft Indicators
    # ZKE3 (GM3.C05)
    
    ALARM_OPT_WARNBLINKER       # "Alarm Visual Warning Flashers"
    ALARM_OPT_ABBLENDLICHT      # "Alarm Visual Low Beam"
    ALARM_OPT_FERNLICHT         # "Alarm Visual High Beam"

*Disabling the warning blinkers seems to be a bit tricky. TBC...*

### Central Locking

    # General Module Coding: Central Locking Indicators
    # ZKE3 (GM3.C05)
    # Translations via NCS Dummy
    
    QUIT_OPT_SCHAERF        # VISUAL LOCKING ACKNOWLEDGE (SINGLE TURN SIGNAL FLASH)
    QUIT_OPT_ENTSCH         # VISUAL UNLOCKING ACKNOWLEDGE (TWO TURN SIGNAL FLASHES)

The same command is used to activate both a single, and double flash of the turn signals. The GM will simply allow one, or two cycles of the turn signals before deactivating.

    # Central Locking
    00 04 BF 76 02 CF   # Turn signals activated
    00 04 BF 76 00 CD   # Turn signals deactivated

*LM doesn't report turn signals via `0x5b`... perhaps time based?*

