# `0x7a` Door/Lid Status

General Module `0x00` → Broadcast `0xb7`

The following is based on **ZKE III** (ZKE3_GM1); E39 Touring (June 97).

This vehicle is **not** equipped with:

- Radio interior protection (FIS) [9/95-9/98, E39 touring to 3/98]
- Ultrasonic interior protection (USIS) [9/98+, E39 touring from 3/98]
- Tilt Sensor

## Examples
    
    00 05 BF 7A 51 1F 8E
    00 05 BF 7A 30 1F EF
    00 05 BF 7A 54 30 A4
    00 05 BF 7A 5B 30 AB
    00 05 BF 7A 30 10 E0

## Parameters

Fixed length. Two byte bitfield.
    
    # Byte 1
    DOORS             = 0b0000_1111 << 8
    UNKNOWN           = 0b0001_0000 << 8
    LOCKED            = 0b0010_0000 << 8
    LAMP_INTERIOR     = 0b0100_0000 << 8
    UNALLOCATED       = 0b1000_0000 << 8
    
    # Byte 2
    WINDOWS           = 0b0000_1111
    SUNROOF           = 0b0001_0000
    REAR_LID          = 0b0010_0000
    FRONT_LID         = 0b0100_0000
    BOOT_RELEASE      = 0b1000_0000   

    # Glove box?
    # Seat belt (U.S. only)?

---

### Doors `0b0000_1111 << 8`

    DOOR_DRIVER       = 0b0000_0001     # Driver's door open
    DOOR_PASSENGER    = 0b0000_0010     # Passenger's door open
    DOOR_REAR_RH      = 0b0000_0100     # Rear left door open
    DOOR_REAR_LH      = 0b0000_1000     # Rear right door open

Determined by door contact switches:

- S14 Driver’s door contact switch
- S13 Passenger’s door contact switch 
- S15 Rear right door door-contact switch
- S16 Rear left door door-contact switch

### Locked `0b0010_0000 << 8`

Represents single or double lock. Triggered by remote entry, driver's door, or central locking button.

    LOCKED     = 0b0010_0000   # Single/double lock

### Lamp Interior `0b0100_0000 << 8`

This bit is set whenever the interior lighting is on, be it automatic (on entry etc), or manual (via lighting controls).

    LAMP_INTERIOR     = 0b0100_0000

---

### Windows `0b0000_1111`

    WINDOW_DRIVER     = 0b0000_0001     # Driver's window open
    WINDOW_PASSENGER  = 0b0000_0010     # Passenger's window open
    WINDOW_REAR_RH    = 0b0000_0100     # Rear right window open
    WINDOW_REAR_LH    = 0b0000_1000     # Rear left window open

The window position is based on the respective regulator motor:

- M21 Driver's window motor
- M23 Passenger's window motor
- M22 Power window motor, rear right
- M20 Power window motor, rear left

> The GM III *[ZKE III GM]* monitors the current draw for end limit position. The maximum run time for the window motors is limited to 6 seconds in the one-touch mode. This allows the motors to be switched off if the end limit load sensing fails.

If the battery is disconnected, all windows will be reported as open until their position is re-established via an open/close cycle.
    
### Sunroof `0b0001_0000`

    SUNROOF     = 0b0001_0000   # Sunroof open
    
Similar to memory seats, the sunroof's position is based on the motor's shaft rotation.

> The motor is powered to open, close and lift the sunroof panel. The motor contains two hall effect sensors that monitor the motor shaft rotation providing sunroof panel position.
> The hall sensors also provide the end limit cut out function for the SHD once the system is initialised. The SHD counts the pulses and cuts the motor out prior to the detected end run of the sunroof panel.

If power is lost the sunroof will be reported as open until reinitialised/cycled.

### Rear Lid `0b0010_0000`

In the case of tourings, both the rear lid, and rear window/hatch will trigger this.

    READ_LID    = 0b0010_0000      # Rear lid/window open

### Front Lid `0b0100_0000`

    FRONT_LID   = 0b0100_0000     # Front lid (hood/bonnet) open
    
*I'm unaware of a use case for this. I believe the front lid contact (S19) is only an input for the anti-theft (DWA) system which is integrated into the GM (ZKE III).*

### Boot Release `0b1000_0000`

This seems to be triggered by the remote boot release.

> A remote luggage compartment button is installed in the left kick panel (centre console in the E53) to open the luggage compartment from inside the vehicle.

    BOOT_RELEASE    = 0b1000_0000

*I can't see a use for this given the switch (S204) is a GM input, and the boot release drive is a GM output. Possibly only of use to the E38 which had a discrete trunk lid module?*

## Use Cases

### Check Control

Several Check Control messages are dependent upon ZKE outputs.
 
> The check control receives information from the ZKE and processes it for the following messages.

> **Door open**  
> This message is output as of a speed of 5 km/h if the driver's, passenger's or rear door is open.> **Luggage compartment (boot/trunk) open**  
> This message appears on exceeding a speed of 5 km/h with the boot/trunk lid open.> **Light on?**  
> This indication appears in ignition lock position "0" when the driver's door is opened with the parking light

There are a small number of U.S. only messages that might be predicated upon this command.

### Check Control (Low/KOMBI)

- Defective lamps (in the LC display for check control messages)
- Door messages (in the LC display for check control messages)
- Catalytic converter overheating (Japan version only)
- Additionally: Gong with ignition key in lock (US version only)

### Electronic Drive Away Protection (EWS)

Lock/double lock status (via remote entry/driver's door operation) is required by the EWS module.
> The lock and unlock information arrives at the GM over the P-Bus from the door module and is sent via the K-Bus to the EWS III (3.2) control module. This information informs the EWS control module the lock status of the vehicle (lock/double lock).

### BMBT: Clock

> *Clock symbol* > Display the time when the ignition is off (ignition key in position 0 or removed from the ignition lock)

The BMBT `0xf0` will periodically make a door/lid status request `0x79`, most notably after interference on the bus while double locked.

This could be related to power management. The BMBT's clock function requires the GT `0x3b` (video module, or navi. computer) be powered; presumably only under certain conditions, i.e. vehicle unlocked.