# `0x19` Temperature

Cluster `0x80` → Broadcast `0xbf`

The cluster will periodically broadcast the ambient, and coolant temperatures while the bus is active.

Temperature values use the Celsius scale (℃) by default. The scale not affected by `0x15` [Language & Region](15.md). For example, if the user sets temperature to ℉, this command will continue to use ℃.

### Related Commands

- `0x1d` [Temperature Request](1d.md)

### Example Frames

    80 06 BF 19 0F 54 00 7B
    80 06 BF 19 0A E2 00 C8
    80 06 BF 19 17 37 00 00

## Parameters

Fixed length. 3 data bytes.

Parameter|Index|Length|Type   |Note
:--------|:----|:-----|:------|:---
Ambient  |`0`  |`1`   |Integer|℃
Coolant  |`1`  |`1`   |Integer|℃
NA       |`2`  |`1`   |--     |Default `0x00`

### Ambient

The cluster receives analogue input from a remote temperature sensor mounted to the engine undertray (E39).

While the cluster does display the temperature to the nearest tenth (i.e. 20.1), this value is a whole number (i.e. 20).

### Coolant

The cluster receives analogue input from the remote coolant temperature sensor which is mounted to the engine head (M52).

### NA

I've not seen any logs to suggest this byte has any use.

## Example

    # Example Temperature Frame 1
    80 06 BF 19 17 37 00 00

Property|Ambient|Coolant|NA
--------|-------|-------|----
**Data**|`17`   |`37`   |`00`
**Value**|23℃|55℃|--

    # Example Temperature Frame 2
    # The engine had been removed when this frame was captured, phew!
    80 06 BF 19 0A E2 00 C8

Property|Ambient|Coolant|NA
--------|-------|-------|----
**Data**|`0A`   |`E2`   |`00`
**Value**|10℃|226℃|--

## Use Cases

### Check Control

> The check control receives information from the IKE for the following messages. [...]

> **Coolant temperature**  
> *The coolant is overheated. Stop the vehicle and switch off the engine immediately.*
